Now let's look at how collections can be accessed and manipulated using SpEL.
Here, we will look at lists and maps.
In addition,
I will show you how to perform collection selection on lists and maps.
So the first step here would be to add two more beans,
Shipping and City, into our E-Commerce application.
Then add collection manipulation SpEL expressions in the code.
Add a few more RESTful services to our controller and,
finally, call the API and see the results.
First of all, let's add two new beans to our project, City and Shipping.
First, City.
Add these properties to it and the getters and setters.
We'll have to put the getter and setter for isCapital as
getIsCapital and setIsCapital for it to work correctly.
Add a constructor to initialize the fields.
The add class Shipping with two maps, locationsByCountry and chargesByLocation.
These maps will hold data about shipping locations of countries
and shipping charges by locations respectively.
Add getters and setters.
I'm going to add this code in the constructor to initialize the two maps with
some hardcoded data like this for the purpose of our demo.
You'll soon see how we are going to use it.
Now let's go to the Order bean and add a new property,
shippingLocations, of type List(City).
Add getters and setters.
Now say we want to populate this list with available
shipping locations for the user's country.
So let's go ahead and write this expression inside @Value annotation.
We created a map called locationsByCountry in the Shipping bean earlier.
So I'm saying shipping.locationsByCountry and pass user.country as the map key.
This will populate shippingLocations list with the
locations based on the user's country.
Here, what we've done is access the map using our SpEL expression.
Now to check this out, I'm going to go to the OrderController,
inject the Shipping and City beans, and create a simple REST service.
Run the application and check out the APIs on REST client to see the result.
Change the VM options and run the application to see the
results changing according to the user's locale.
Now let's go ahead and add another property to the Order bean called
nonCapitalShippingLocations of type List once again.
We need to populate this list with the shipping locations out
of the capital city of the user's country.
For this,
we need to write an expression that filters the
shippingLocations list that we already have,
which means a list selection.
So we use the period and question mark operator.
Let's go ahead and check the output as usual.
Here is the filtered list of non-capital shipping locations for the user.
Now I want to show you a few more examples of
accessing and manipulating lists and maps.
For this, let's add a property, westernShippingLocations, to the Order bean.
This will be a map of shipping locations in the western countries.
So we'll have to do a map selection here by filtering the
locationsByCountry map in the Shipping bean like this,
key=='UK' or key=='US' or key=='DK'.
Once again, test the application as usual,
and you can see the western shipping locations filtered from the original map.
Let's do one more expression.
Let's say we want to show the number of cheap shipping locations to
the user where the shipping cost is less than $10.
So add a property named noOfCheapShippingLocations.
Then write the expression like this with the selection operator on the list
to filter it where the shipping cost is less than $10.
Then get the size of the filtered list and assign it to the property.
When you run it, the result looks like this.
In fact, we've done a collection selection on the shippingLocations list.
And on the resulting list, we've called the size method,
which means we've performed an accessing operation on the collection as well. So two in one, accessing a collection and collection manipulation in action.